# Front-end Decision Board, 2019-04-11

## #31 Validation of config objects

**Conclusion**: Two strategies of validating configuration object to use as a guide:

- _Strict validation_: For required arguments/properties the function should use strict validation that
those parameters/properties are correct. Compile time validation if possible, otherwise runtime validation.

- _Loose validation_: For unused arguments/properties the function should ignore their existence, allowing for
flexible reuse of data structures without the need to create a unique configuration object per function.

## #(n/a) Function arguments 

The general rule for function arguments is the relatively standard:

- Limit of three (3) positional arguments in a function declaration.
- The third positional argument should always be a configuration object. [See below](#user-content-limiting-changes-to-codebases-when-adding-arguments).

Mixing configuration objects and positional arguments is a judgement call.

Sometimes it makes sense to have one required and several options arugments, e.g. `fetchUrl('google.com',
{})`. Be mindful during code reviews.

#### Not OK:

```js
function Foobar(a, b, c, d) {}
```

#### OK:

```js
function Foobar({
    a,
    b,
    c,
    d,
}) {}

// useful for e.g. currying
function Foobar(a, {
    b,
    c,
    d,
}) {}
```

### Limiting changes to codebase(s) when adding arguments

In practice a limit of three positional arguments to a function means that the third argument should always be a configuration object. This is to minimize the necessary changes to a codebase when adding the final (third) positional argument.

As an example, given the functions:

```js
function doSomething (a, b, c) {}

function doSomethingElse (a, b) {}
```

If we want to add another argument to `doSomething`, we have two options:

```js
// 1
function doSomething (a, b, { c, d }) {}

// 2
function doSomething ({ a, b, c, d }) {}
```

Both of these changes to the function is a **breaking change** and would require a **major version bump** if the function is part of the exposed API. For internal functions, it will require an according change for every usage of the function.

So, in practice, the third positional argument should always be reserved for the configuration object in order to acomodate for a **minor** version bump if the function signature needs to be expanded. This minimizes the impact of changing the signature on the rest of the codebase, both internally and externally.

For `doSomethingElse`, we can simply add the third (configuration object) argument without breaking any existing usages (internal or external) of the code:

```js
function doSomethingElse(a, b, { c, d })
```

**Conlusion**:
There is some flexibility in our standard, so opt towards:

- minimize the impact of changes to the function declarations
- use configuration objects freely
- use positional arguments sparingly.

## #23 Which future syntax do we want to use in our js?

**Conclusion**: We write JavaScript code according to the
[current spec](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/).

Note that not all Babel plugins have anything to do with standardized
ECMAScript, and this is not about banning the use of Babel plugins. Babel
is a very useful tool to do compile time operations and should be considered
a tool to solve problems in that space.

New exceptions (using stage-3 proposals) should be handled with care through discussion with the
frontend group.

Currently we accept:

- [tc39/proposal-class-fields](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-class-fields) :: [@babel/plugin-proposal-class-properties](https://babeljs.io/docs/en/babel-plugin-proposal-class-properties)

Currently we tolerate the [proposals](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app/blob/master/packages/babel-preset-react-app/create.js) used by Create React App as well.

Avoid decorators where possible.

## #15 One file for one function

**Conclusion**: "It depends". Ultimately it is a judgement call for the
developers and reviewers. It can have a big impact on understanding a
code base, so do keep it in mind to err on the side of readability.
Files are cheap as Git only tracks content.

Generally smaller files are better. Use common sense as to what makes
the code easier to read and understand.

Utility files is one example where if every util function is kept in the
same file it becomes a mess and hard to read and keep track of.
Divide and conquer.
